Knights of the Keyboard Charter 

Mission Statement: Our mission is to develop high-quality, scalable, and innovative
software solutions that meet user needs while fostering a culture of collaboration, 
continuous learning, and engineering excellence.  

Core Values:  

Collaboration: We work together and support each other to achieve our goals.  

Innovation: We embrace creativity and strive for continuous improvement.  

Accountability: We take ownership of our tasks and responsibilities.  

Quality First: We aim for clean, maintainable, and efficient code 

Meetings:  

Tuesday after 1:30, Thursday after 4:30, in person and/or Discord.  

Additional meetings may be scheduled as needed during sprints. Team 
members should be given at least 24 hours' notice. If this amount of 
notice is not possible, missing this meeting cannot be treated as a 
minor infraction. 

Team members will communicate absences or delays ahead of time, ideally 
at least 24 hours' notice. In case of extenuating circumstances, absent
team members must provide reasoning behind their absence. Unexcused 
absences not given reasoning will be treated as a minor infraction. 

Response to Communication: 

All members must respond to messages in Discord and emails within 24 hours. 
Failure to do so without valid reasoning will be treated as a minor infraction. 

Meeting Roles:
Leader: keeps the meeting on track, ensures that team members do not get distracted 

Scribe: takes notes for the meeting (preferably via computer as opposed to by hand) 

Planner: plans the agenda for the meeting, should coordinate with Leader 

Scrum meeting format/frequency and distribution of documentation tasks 
(meeting minutes, updating task board) 

Scrum Meeting Format & Frequency: 

Weekly Team Meeting (Every Tuesday after lab, ~30–45 mins): Discuss progress, 
update tasks, address blockers, document meeting minutes. 

Sprint Planning (Start of each sprint, ~1 hour): Define sprint goals, assign tasks, 
update task board. 

Sprint Review (End of each sprint, ~30 mins): Present completed tasks to stakeholder 
(Professor) for feedback. 

Sprint Retrospective (End of each sprint, ~30 mins): Reflect on sprint performance 
and suggest improvements. 

Documentation Responsibilities: 

Meeting Minutes: Rotating responsibility each week among team members. 

 

Task Board Updates: All team members regularly update their own task statuses. 

Policies:  

General adoption policy: a poll will be put into the Discord server with detailed 
information of the policy being adopted. Any member can suggest a policy. The poll will have a deadline of 48 hours. 

Definition of done: A task is complete when it has first been committed to Github, requested 
a pull with detailed information on what has been changed, and pull request has been approved by at 
least 2 group members. Any work not committed or reviewed is considered incomplete.

Group disciplinary action (minor infraction): process to deal with a member who is not meeting expectations  

-Step 1: Inform member in question of the concern that the group has, provide extra 24-48 hours to complete task 

-Step 2: If group member has not completed work within the time frame, reach out again, provide extra 12-24 hours to complete task 

-Step 3: Should problems persist over 2 weeks, escalate to a major infraction 

Group disciplinary action (major infraction): process to deal with a team member who has done something serious 

-Step 1: Reach out to Scrum Master with details of the member who has committed the infraction 

-Step 2: If problem persists longer than 1 week after contacting Scrum Master, reach out to Product Owner 

Coding Conventions:  

In general, the principles of SOLID should be followed. Documentation is mandatory for each class, function, 
and method. Descriptive naming conventions should be followed. Code should be reasonably formatted, clean, and tested before merging. 

Signatures:  

We, the members of the Glorious 361 Group, agree to uphold this charter and collaborate respectfully and responsibly. 

Will Peters  

Labib Alam  

Ismael Ovalle 

Hugo Gonzalez  

Keshab Mondal 
